---
---

layout: post
title:  "Company Purpose: Lupo.ai (Sequoia Capital Business Plan Guideline)"
date:   2025-01-03 00:00:00 -0600
categories: ["Posts"] 


# Problem: Lupo.ai in the Sequoia Capital Business Plan Guideline

 

Sequoia Capital (the ones behind AirBnb) has a business plan guideline, and this post is part of a series where I expand on each one areas they suggest. Today I am writing on "Company purpose", which they state the following: "Company purpose: define your company in a single declarative sentence. This is harder than it looks. It’s easy to get caught up listing features instead of communicating your mission."




Problem: Describe the pain of your customer. How is this addressed today and what are the shortcomings to current solutions.




Title: Lupo.ai – The Problem We’re Solving

In the modern business world, training is no longer a “nice to have”—it’s a necessity.

Whether it's educating customers on how to use a product, onboarding new employees, or upskilling teams to stay competitive, organizations recognize the value of effective training. Yet, despite its importance, creating and delivering training comes with significant challenges:

High Costs: Traditional training methods often require substantial resources—expert instructors, production teams, and ongoing updates to content. For many companies, the expense is prohibitive.

Lack of Scalability: Customized training programs can work well for small teams or localized groups but struggle to scale globally, especially when dealing with multiple languages or diverse audiences.

Technical Barriers: Creating engaging, high-quality training videos often demands technical expertise in areas like video production, scripting, and editing—skills many businesses lack in-house.

Time-Intensive Process: Developing training materials from scratch is a labor-intensive process that can delay time-to-value, especially in fast-moving industries.

Inconsistent Quality: Without a standardized approach, the quality of training content can vary widely, leaving learners disengaged or struggling to grasp key concepts.

These challenges don’t just hinder training efforts—they impact business outcomes. Without effective training, companies face increased employee turnover, frustrated customers, and missed opportunities for growth.

At the heart of the problem is a fundamental inefficiency: the process of creating and delivering impactful training is too complex, too expensive, and too slow for most organizations.

This is the problem Lupo.ai was created to solve.