Simon Allardice simon-allardice@pluralsight.com

Fri, Jan 8, 2016, 3:24 PM

to me

 

Hi Xavier,

(long reply ahead)

Sure! Happy to discuss what I'm using. 

I've been recording my own "self-filmed live action" for my courses for a few years, first at lynda.com and now at Pluralsight.  

My camera/recording setup has evolved over the last few years. I'll explain how it evolved, and why I chose the things I did.

I'll begin by saying that I began this knowing very little about photography and video - this was not an existing hobby of mine, so I didn't know what I was doing. I'm pretty good with most of it now, though still fairly ignorant when it comes to subjects like color balance.

I'll split this into four parts:

Camera

Lens

Lighting

Sound


1: CAMERA
I use a DSLR to record my video. 

I don't use a webcam, or a home video camcorder, because I personally haven't seen one with image quality that I consider good enough. 

(Sure, there are professional camcorders, like Canon C100, or RED cameras, but I don't want to spend that much... at least, not yet. DSLR seems to offer the highest quality for the lowest price.)

I started (with the lynda.com courses) by using the camera I already had: an inexpensive DSLR, the Canon T2i. 

The T2i is old, long discontinued, and not one I would recommend. The video quality is adequate, but this camera wasn't really intended for video. The main limitations were: 

It would get and switch off if I recorded too much

It doesn't have a flip-out screen, so I couldn't see myself when recording 

But using this camera helped me figure out what was important. Because whatever I use, I need to be able to run it all by myself. I can't rely on having anyone else to start/stop the camera, frame or focus for me.

What's important:

a way to view yourself from *in front* of the camera, to check position, focus and framing - either a flip-out screen or way to connect a separate monitor.

some kind of remote control

a way to run from AC power, not batteries

So in 2015 I updated my DSLR to a Canon 70D.

There's a lot of great cameras out there, but my main reason for choosing the Canon 70D is because it has very good face-detecting autofocus, (not just regular autofocus) and as someone who has to do this all themselves, I wanted that.

Short 15 second example at http://www.mobypicture.com/user/allardice/view/18379881

It also has a flip-out screen as a way to check my framing when I'm in front of the camera.

(However, recently I picked up a device called a Manfrotto Digital Director - it's a way to use an iPad as a external monitor and remote control combo for certain cameras, and it works with the 70D - I really like it, and it improves my workflow, though it's certainly not essential.)

2: LENS
You can get perfectly acceptable video with a stock lens. However, I  like having a very shallow depth-of-field, the "bokeh" effect of having my face in focus, but the background out of focus - I think it gives a more "professional" look - you just have to be prepared to do more work setting up.

I have the Sigma 18-35mm F1.8, which is a terrific lens. Not cheap (about $800) but in the world of lenses, it's incredible value for what it offers. The low F means I can get that shallow depth-of-field.

3: LIGHTING
This is one of the key challenges, and one I still fight with. I watched a few videos on YouTube about setting up a classic "three point lighting" setup.

I bought a couple of inexpensive ($30) LED camera lights from Amazon to use as side and back lights to fill in some of the shadows.

http://www.amazon.com/NEEWER®-Dimmable-Digital-Camcorder-Panasonic/dp/B004TJ6JH6/

They're not great, and not very well built, but they've worked okay. Lighting is still something I experiment with, and I haven't yet got a solution I'm happy about.

4: SOUND
One of the biggest issues with using a DSLR is that the in-built microphones are always terrible.

So I use an external microphone. When I first started doing this, I was recording myself in my booth, so I just used the same microphone I was using to record the screen capture.

But once I decided to try filming in my office, I personally didn't want to see a microphone on screen, so I bought a shotgun mic that's positioned slightly offscreen. I use the Rode NTG-3, it's overkill for what I'm doing (the cheaper NTG-1 or NTG-2 would probably work just as well) but unlike cameras and video, working with audio is an existing hobby of mine, and I always like to play around with microphones.

One problem with using many external microphones (like my Rode) is that they require phantom power to work, so they can't be plugged directly into the camera.

So my microphone goes into a separate audio recorder (the Tascam DR60D), which supplies power, and from that, an audio out to the camera external audio input.

And this way I get good quality audio and good quality video. I then take the output from the camera and edit it into my course - I use Final Cut Pro X for editing, but any decent video editor will work. 

I don't (yet) do any extra processing on the video, like changing contrast or color - my aim is always to have it as good as possible right out of the camera.

And while there is a shift in the audio because of the different microphones I use when I go from the live video to the normal screen capture, people aren't bothered about it. As long as the levels are similar, and the audio doesn't sound completely different, it isn't a problem.

So... that's my basic setup for recording. 

 

I used to go from memory when recording, but that led to a lot of re-takes, so recently I added a low end "teleprompter" setup I bought from amazon:

http://www.amazon.com/iPad2-iPad3-Teleprompter-R810-10-Splitter/dp/B008NPBEJA

And I use an iPad with the PromptSmart Pro app, which does voice detection and automatically scrolls the script as I read. It's not perfect, but as a one-man setup it works well.

To make it into a practical workflow, I also have the expected tripods, lots of spare batteries, long cables, etc. 

This year, I expect to keep the same camera, lens, and microphone setup, but experiment more with lighting, with improving color balance, and trying some different locations.

Now, the question of _what_ kind of content is right for doing as live video is worth a discussion, but that's another conversation entirely, so I'll leave it at that for now.

If you have any questions, ask away!

Best

Simon

Simon Allardice
Author | PLURALSIGHT

www.pluralsight.com

mobile: +1 (480) 363-7680

Twitter

